.github/workflows/triage-incoming-issues.md, before:

---
on:
  issues:
    types: [opened]
  roles: all
permissions:
  contents: read
  actions: read
safe-outputs:
  add-labels:
    allowed: [bug, enhancement, needs-info, documentation]
  add-comment:
    max: 2
  assign-to-user:
    allowed: [frankbria]
  close-issue:
    target: "triggering"
---

# Issue Triage Assistant

Analyze new issue content and provide helpful guidance. Examine the title and description for bug reports needing 
information, feature requests to categorize, questions to answer, or potential duplicates. Respond with a comment 
guiding next steps or providing immediate assistance.

If the issue is a true bug which is not already identified, then apply the label "bug" and assign it to "@frankbria". 
That will trigger the Tracyer.AI planning agent to create a plan to fix.

If the issue is already addressed in another issue, then comment so and close the issue as a duplicate.

If the issue is a feature request, apply the label "enhancement".

If the issue is a support question or vague enough that it cannot be assigned a label, then comment as such as suggest an
appropriate next step for the user.

Commit message:

feat(ci): add workflow_dispatch trigger and batch triage support
Add manual dispatch support to the issue triage workflow so it can
be triggered on-demand to triage all unlabeled open issues at once.

.github/workflows/triage-incoming-issues.md, after:

---
on:
  issues:
    types: [opened]
  workflow_dispatch:
  roles: all
permissions:
  contents: read
  actions: read
safe-outputs:
  add-labels:
    allowed: [bug, enhancement, needs-info, documentation]
  add-comment:
    max: 2
  assign-to-user:
    allowed: [frankbria]
  close-issue:
    target: "triggering"
---

# Issue Triage Assistant

## Trigger Modes

**Issue event trigger**: When triggered by a new issue being opened, triage only that issue.

**Manual dispatch trigger**: When triggered via workflow_dispatch, fetch ALL open issues that have no labels yet (unlabeled), and triage each one. Skip issues that already have labels assigned.

## Triage Instructions

For each issue, analyze the title and description to determine its category:

1. **Bug reports**: If the issue is a true bug not already identified elsewhere, apply the label "bug" and assign it to "@frankbria".

2. **Duplicates**: If the issue is already addressed in another open issue, comment explaining which issue it duplicates and close it.

3. **Feature requests**: If the issue is a feature request or enhancement proposal, apply the label "enhancement".

4. **Support / unclear**: If the issue is a support question or too vague to categorize, comment with guidance and suggest an appropriate next step for the user.

For each issue triaged, add a comment explaining the categorization and any recommended next steps.
